---
layout: post
title: Installing sqltable for Torch/Lua
---

['sqltable'](https://zadzmo.org/code/sqltable/) is a lua wrapper for accessing SQL tables as Lua Tables. SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE and DELETE become metamethods in such a way that no native SQL needs to be written. Some of the documentation and exact details of how to install it are not clear online, so here is a snapshot of what I learnt spending a few hours installing it.

* Install MySQL or your other flavor of SQL for your OS. If you are on CentOS, follow this [link](http://www.rackspace.com/knowledge_center/article/installing-mysql-server-on-centos)
* Once you are done, run

```
sudo yum install mysql-devel -y
```

This installs an SQL client on the same machine, which is useful/required to interface or connect SQL with other platforms. This should also place mysql.h file in ```/usr/include``` directory. This is critical to run the next step. If you dont find it, run the ```locate mysql.h``` command to figure out where it exists.

* Before installing 'sqltable', a further step is to install luaDBI. For MySQL, install it using

```
luarocks install luadbi-mysql MYSQL_INCDIR=/usr/include/mysql
```

If the path for mysql.h is different, use that in MYSQL_INCDIR path.
If this doesnt, work and you get an error that libmysqlclient.so is not found, add a path to it by supplying an additional argument:

```
luarocks install luadbi-mysql MYSQL_INCDIR=/usr/include/mysql MYSQL_LIBDIR=/usr/lib64/mysql
```

* Finally, we can install sqltable using luarocks:

```
luarocks install sqltable
```

* To verify the installation, try the following commands on the Torch shell

```
sqltable = require 'sqltable'
sql = sqltable.connect({type='MySQL', name='test'})
```
Assuming you have created a database called test using mysql command line.

NOTE:
This procedure was tested to work on CentOS6.7.
